In this video,
we'll cover the TDD for the service and the DAO.
Here's our final architecture as far as the application
that we're going to build.
And what we'll do is,
we'll make use of TDD to build out the service and the DAOs.
So for our student grade service
we'll build this out using test driven development,
and also for the DAOs,
we'll build those out,
using test driven development.
Now for our DAOs, we'll make you so Spring Data JPA,
basically a collection of Crud repositories.
And then for our database,
we'll make use of the H Two Database,
it's an in-memory, embedded database.
The in-memory, embedded databases are good for testing
because you can quickly set them up
and tear them down.
Also, there's no network latency
so the test will run faster
and it minimizes any leftover data that's in the database.
So just a small little embedded database that we can use,
set it up,
use it,
throw it away and so on.
And this is a common practice for integration testing,
is by making use of these H Two,
in-memory, embedded databases.
All righty, this looks pretty good.
Let's go ahead and move into our IDE and let's get started.
Okay, so let's go ahead and move in here.
And what I like to do is create the new test directory.
So under source, choose directory
and we'll select the test/Java directory.
It's a Maven source directory for all of our test classes.
And for test Java, we'll create a new package
and we'll name the package com.luv2code.springmvc.
And this matches with the actual package name
we have for our main code.
And outside of this package,
let's go ahead and create our new test class.
And the name of this class will be
StudentAndGradeServiceTest.
I may expand the window here for a second
and up top I want to add some annotations.
The first annotation I use is a TestPropertySource.
So this will allowed me to load properties during testing
and I'll reference application.properties.
So right now I'm just going to use my regular
application.properties
and then in future videos we'll change it up
and we'll use different files for this
but we'll just kind of start here for now.
And then I'll also make use of the annotation
for SpringBootTest.
And now let's move in here and let's just add a basic test.
And this will be for creating studentService
and at the moment, I'll just kind of leave it blank.
I'll just run this test,
just to make sure I have everything set up properly
and all the configs in place.
All righty, so that test ran successfully.
Again, there's nothing in here,
I just wanted to make sure I have
all of my items lined up accordingly.
All right, so this is good.
And now let's go ahead and start writing this in the code,
this whole test driven development.
So I'll allow the test to kind of drive my design
or the methods in classes that I'll use here.
So I'd like to use the studentService
and create a new student.
So give first name and last name and email.
And then once I've created a student,
then I'd like to retrieve the student from the DAO.
I'll say, studentDAO.findByEmailAddress,
and I'd give the actual email address.
And then as far as my test or assertion here
I'll assert, the expected is the email address,
student.getEmailAddress
make sure those two are equal.
If that works out, then this test will pass.
But now notice here, I have a lot of red in place,
mainly because the two items, studentService and studentDAO
we actually, we haven't even created that code yet.
And so this is the whole test driven approach,
we'll allow the test to kind of drive our development.
So what I'll do for now is,
I'll kind of comment out those two lines
and I'll just do it one at a time.
I'll just start here with studentService first
and then I'll work through trying to get this resolved.
But if I were to run the test here, as is,
now this will fail because I have a compilation error
because it can't find studentService.
So we'll actually need to create a studentService class
and then autowire it into this test and then use it.
But this is kind of the first approach, right?
Write a failing test first,
and then we write code
or refactor code to make the test pass.